An unlocked gun can ruin more than one life. In fact, The Trace reports that toddlers shot an average of one person per week for the 2015 year, often injuring or killing themselves, because they were able to get on their hands on a gun.
Zore, like many new products on the market, aims to change all that.
Zore is a Jerusalem-based startup that has built a smart gun lock. Through a connection to an app on your phone, the Zore X lets the user unlock the gun remotely, as well as monitor movement of the gun if it’s within Bluetooth range.
However, in the case of an emergency, many of us don’t want to be fiddling with our smartphone just to unlock a gun, which is otherwise useless, when confronted with an attacker.
That’s why Zore included a PIN dial right on the Zore lock. It’s rather similar to a locker lock, letting the user spin it back and forth a couple of times matching their unique PIN code. Even with a relatively long PIN code, users are able to unlock the gun within seconds.
Zore even says that, with a little practice, users should be able to unlock their Zore-protected guns behind their backs or in the dark.
Locking the gun is only possible using the physical Lock button on the Zore itself.
For that aforementioned practice, Zore created the Zore trainer as a piece of the app, which surprises the user and tests how quickly they can unlock their gun.
The company also sells the Zore Bridge, which can go in the home and monitor the gun at a much farther range than just the phone app. It uses a Bluetooth connection, just like the app itself, to monitor the movement of the gun and tell whether or not anyone is trying to break in.
As a complement to that, for even more protection, users can purchase the Wi-Fi-based Zore WatchDog, which gives users constant watch over their gun and lock no matter where they are in the world.
We’ve seen a handful of tech-based devices looking to make guns more secure, including one of our CES Hardware Battlefield companies, Identilock.
Zore put the product up on Indiegogo in June and has received nearly $250,000 from backers, well over the company’s $100,000 target.
For the Fourth of July, the company is offering a discount deal: two Zore X, one Zore Bridge and one free Zore WatchDog for $209.
You can check out Zore here.
