If you have an iPhone other than the 6 Plus or 6S Plus, chances are that you run out of battery pretty frequently. In a world where background updates, location tracking, and 24/7 bluetooth constantly drain our batteries, it’s not unheard of to run out of juice just a few hours into your day.
Most people have recruited battery packs, car chargers, or battery cases to help temporarily solve the problem until Apple releases a phone with a bigger battery. But these solutions mean you have to carry around extra bulky gear to stay charged. So here’s another option; buy this wallet with a built-in battery pack.
The leather wallet is made by Nomad, purveyor of unique accessories for the Apple Watch and other iOS devices. It comes in two sizes, slim and bi-fold, both of which pack a 2400 mAh battery. This capacity is enough to fully charge an iPhone 6. The battery is literally built-in to the wallet (so it’s non removable), and includes an integrated Lightening cable, plus Micro USB port that is used to charge the battery.
The wallet itself is just as nice. Nomad recruited Horween Leather Company, a Chicago-based tannery that provides leather to make game balls for the NFL and NBA and gloves for MLB.
The slim sells for $119.95 and the bi-fold for $149.95, which is a ridiculous price to pay for just a battery pack, but what you’re paying for is the wallet’s high quality leather. In fact, the $30 price difference is solely to account for the extra leather in the bi-fold, and the company says the leather is by far the most expensive component of the wallet’s manufacturing price.
I got a chance to play with some of the company’s first units ever made, and was really impressed by the leather quality (and smell). I preferred the slim version, but mainly because I hate carrying around a big wallet. And even though the slim doesn’t technically have a bill holder, it’s more than big enough to hold some folded up cash and 4-5 cards.
Both versions conceal the battery into the spine of the wallet, and while they may be slightly bigger than a regular wallet, owners will no longer have to schlep around a battery pack anymore.
Overall, if you’re someone who carries a portable battery pack around in your pocket or bag, it’s a no brainer.
