Meet Fusar, a helmet kit. Instead of trying to reinvent helmets, the Fusar system works with any helmet. You just have to clip the main component, the Mohawk, to your existing helmet to turn it into a safe, smart helmet. The full kit will be available for $549, and early adopters can buy it for $349. The company is competing in our Hardware Battlefield competition at CES.
With only the Mohawk part, you can add an action camera, activity tracker, communication device, navigation unit, music player, black box and emergency alert system to your helmet. It uses a standard action camera mount and works on the side or at the top of your helmet.
And that’s it. Once it’s on your helmet, you control everything through Fusar’s app on your phone. For instance, you can start recording videos from the mobile app.
The Mohawk camera shoots 1080p videos or 12MP photos. But the best part is that you can use the HotShot feature to shoot a quick 15-second video and send directly to your social media accounts.
In other words, the Mohawk also competes directly with a GoPro. You have to take this into consideration when looking at the retail price as you won’t have to buy a GoPro in addition to the Fusar Mohawk. And as you can see from the pictures, the Mohawk looks much better than mounting a GoPro on your helmet. You can leave the Mohawk on your helmet.
Now, there are other components on the Fusar kit as well. For example, if you don’t want to use your phone when riding a bike. Fusar also provides a button with LED indications for your handlebar or wrist. There’s also a communication headset so that you can chat with your buddies in walkie-talkie style.
Finally, the Fusar system tracks your activity with an accelerometer, magnetometer, gyroscope and GPS. You’ll not only get all your stats once you’re done with your ride, but it could also prove to be an essential tool thanks to the built-in crash detection system.
If something goes wrong, the Fusar Mohawk will alert emergency contacts with a map and the local phone numbers of the three nearest EMS dispatchers. The Mohawk is expected to ship in Q3 2016 and the company has already done a successful Indiegogo campaign.

