Microsoft today announced that it has acquired VoloMetrix, a service that specializes in analyzing organizational performance using anonymized data it gathers from across a company’s corporate communications systems.
Organization analytics is something Microsoft itself has been looking at, too, and its Delve organizational analytics service is currently in preview and scheduled for general release by the end of the year.
VoloMetrix, which launched in 2011, had previously raised about $17 million in funding rounds led by Split Rock Partners and Shasta Ventures.

The company closed its Split Rock-led $12 million Series B round last October. At the time, the company’s CEO Ryan Fuller told me that it was seeing “tremendous traction in customers using the product to increase sales productivity by deepening their understanding of sales activities and customer relationships, and using it for organizational simplification by understanding the cost of processes, meetings and bureaucracy in their businesses.”
In today’s announcement, Fuller says that joining Microsoft will be “a huge win for our customers as we provide even better solutions going forward.” Similarly, Microsoft says that “this acquisition will combine VoloMetrix’ experience, technology and track record of success with Office 365 and our previously announced Delve Organizational Analytics.”
It’s unclear whether Microsoft plans to fully integrate VoloMetrix into its own Delve product or if it will continue to operate as a standalone product. We have asked Microsoft for clarification and will update this post once we hear back.
Update: and here is what a Microsoft spokesperson told us about the company’s plans for the future of VoloMetrix: “Microsoft plans to integrate the VoloMetrix solution into Delve Organizational Analytics service that the company announced at Ignite and is currently under development. They expect to launch an early preview program for Delve Organizational Analytics within the next month, and general availability of the initial release of the integrated Office 365 service by the end of this calendar year.“
