So, Recode reported today that Twitter was tinkering around with the idea of expanding its 140 character limit to a number a bit higher….10,000 characters.
But what, you ask (and I’m glad you did), does 10,000 characters look like? Well, hey. Let’s find out.
Soooo, did you see the Warriors game last night? Crazy, right? It was nice to see Harrison Barnes back and the entire crowd cheered when he entered the game. Steph Curry is probably not human, because he shoots the ball from the parking lot and it swishes like butter. How many characters am I up to now? Lemme check, so hold on….
597.
Anyways, then it started raining today and my dogs don’t like rain so it’s really difficult to take them outside to do their business in the morning when they don’t want to deal with the rain. I try to talk them into the fact that they’re actually getting a bath and pooping at the same time, kind of a two birds with one stone thing. They don’t buy it. Speaking of rain, it didn’t rain on my wedding day like the weather people thought it would. How do they keep their jobs when they’re wrong all of the time? It’s almost like they could do my job. Wait, I didn’t mean that how it sounded. Where are we at now?
1194.
OK. So anyways. Here’s a favorite quote of mine from Bill Clinton:
I think what he’s saying is that you can make mistakes, but you have to learn from them. I’ve made a bunch of mistakes, how about you? My dogs made a mistake this morning because they didn’t want to go out in the rain. But that’s cool, I don’t get mad. Life’s too short, you know?
Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit. Never quit.
2507.
Did you see the President speak about gun control today? It’s important. Probably the most important problem of our time and we have to solve it. Here’s what he said today:
Regardless of where you stand on the matter, we have to change some things.
Back to tech. Are you at CES? I’m not this year. Mostly because there’s a lot of germs and I shouldn’t be around them if I can help it. I’m pretty sure my dogs would have liked it though, because there’s a lot of tech in Vegas for all kinds of people (and pets). If you were a dog would you want a phone? Or a self-feeding thing? Of course you would. You’d have to sit around all day watching your parents use technology while you sit around and lick yourself. What kind of existence is that? I know, right? I hope there’s some dog tech that comes out of the conference, otherwise it’s a wash.
6294.
Time for another quote. JFK this time:
I think what JFK meant was just because things aren’t going your way doesn’t mean that it won’t eventually. You have to play the long game, you have to stick in there and see things as far as you can possibly see them. It’s like Twitter. People are worried about whether Twitter can weather the storm of lack of growth. I think it can. What about the character count? Well, I personally feel like asking people to keep their thoughts shorter make them more powerful. They’re easier to share. Repeat, etc. What will happen when people can put this much text in a tweet? I don’t know. I do know that I don’t want to spend hours reading tweets because I like the fact that I can glance at the app and figure out what’s going on pretty quickly.
If I wanted to write a book, I’d do it on Facebook.
But maybe people want more characters. I’m not sure who, though. I’d like to meet them. Maybe they have dogs, too. We could chat about that.
What are your favorite movies? I have a top 10 and it changes sometimes:
– Rocky
– Forrest Gump
– Cast Away
– Fantastic Mr. Fox
– Signs
– Lars and the Real Girl
– Superbad
– Spaceballs
– Shawshank Redemption
– Jackie Brown
Share yours in the comments if you want.
7657.
Here’s another quote, this time from Maya Angelou:
Being a blessing to someone is a great way to be. Have you been a blessing to someone lately? I feel like we could all do a better job of that, even if it’s in small ways. I feel like people always want to do something great and massively huge, but forget about all of the little things along the way. Making someone smile, holding the door for someone, giving someone a hug when they really really need it. Those kinds of things last forever. Don’t hold back on doing a bunch of little great things to do something huge that you’ll get overwhelmed with and not follow through on.
8614. Wow, this is a lot of characters.
I feel like Kurt Wagner did a good job of talking about the ramifications of expanding tweets to 10,000 characters:
How can Twitter become more like Facebook without becoming Facebook? There’s too many words on Facebook, something the company itself is trying to get away from by introducing all sorts of new media, like 360 degree videos. There’s always a place for long form content, and just because you have the space doesn’t mean you have to fill it. But still, a lot of people will try. Spammers will definitely try. In fact, can you imagine getting spam tweets that are over 140 characters? Ugh. It’ll be like reading SPAM in your EMAIL!@$#!@#!@#
One more quote, this one from Clarence Darrow:
Maybe Twitter should just acquire Medium instead.
Oops, I went over the “limit.”
