Tinder today is launching a new application for social polling. The company announced the debut of “Tinder Stacks,” an app for iMessage users that will let you use the “swipe to like” gesture the dating app popularized for anything you want – whether that’s polling your friends which photo should be your new profile picture, what outfit you should wear tonight, or anything else.
While Tinder Stacks is discoverable though Apple’s iMessage App Store, it’s not technically a standalone application. Instead, the new app is included with the flagship Tinder application. That means if you already have Tinder installed, the new Tinder Stacks app will automatically become available in iMessage – if you haven’t turned the “Automatically Add Apps” switch off from the “Manage” tab of the iMessage App Store.

The idea behind the app is fairly straightforward.
You simply select a group of photos you want feedback on by selecting them in the app’s interface. This creates a card stack, similar to what you would find in Tinder. You can then send out the card stack to your friends, and they’ll be presented with a familiar Tinder-like interface where they can swipe right or left to indicate they like or don’t like the item in question, respectively.
While just a fun little app, Tinder Stacks could allow the dating service to reach a younger demographic. Many pre-teens, teens and young adults favor social polling applications, as peer feedback and social acceptance is an important part of their lives at their age. The App Store today is filled with dozens of social polling apps, but many have focused on sharing out polls via social media sites, like Twitter and Facebook.
Tinder Stacks’ launch follows a slew of product updates for Tinder in recent days. The company also this week announced Spotify integration with user profiles, following its rival Bumble. It has also added other social features like the ability to recommend Tinder profiles to friends, and the expansion to include new friend-finding through the launch of Tinder Social.
