Apple has just released iOS 10, the final version. If you want to get the latest iOS features and put a fresh coat of paint on your device, it’s time to update your iPhone or iPad. The update is currently rolling out and is available both over-the-air in the Settings app, and by plugging your device into iTunes for a wired update.
If you don’t see the update right away, don’t panic as it could take a few minutes. If you can’t download it right away, it’s because Apple now has a queue system for big updates like iOS 10 to ensure speedy downloads.
As there is going to be tremendous demand for iOS 10 with tens of millions of people trying to update their devices, it could take an hour or more before the actual download starts. But first, backup your device. Make sure your iCloud backup is up to date by going to your iPhone or iPad settings. Additionally, you can also plug your iOS device to your computer to do a manual backup in iTunes (or do both, really).
Once this is done, you should go to the Settings app as soon as possible to get in the queue. Navigate to ‘Settings,’ then ‘General’ and then ‘Software Update.’ Then you should see ‘Update Requested…” It will then automatically start downloading once the download is available.
iOS 10 features a massive Siri update with third-party integrations. For instance, you can now send money to your friends and family using Siri and various payment apps. You can also call a ride or send a message using a third-party messaging app.
Apple has also unveiled a completely redesigned lock screen with a new look for notifications. They can also now display tiny live widgets if you have an iPhone 6s or 7 with 3D Touch. iOS 10 also comes with a huge Photos app update with face recognition, deep learning categorization and intelligent photo albums. Apple Maps, Apple Music, HomeKit and the Phone app are also receiving updates.
Finally, the company is overhauling the Messages app with many, many new features — an emojify feature, message effects, Slack-like feedback on messages, rich link previews and third-party extensions.
While you download the update, why don’t you head over to our review and read about all the new features in iOS 10. In addition to the review, I also compiled a few of the neat hidden features in iOS 10.
