Last summer we reviewed Aces, the in-app concierge service from HotelTonight. And while we enjoyed using the service, our main gripe was that it was limited to just five cities, and even there it was only limited to select users.
But today that changes, as HotelTonight has announced they are rolling out Aces to anyone who books a hotel with a total room cost over $200 in over 30 cities around the world. You can find the full list of cities here, but they range from international hotspots like London to smaller towns like Savannah, Ga. and Scottsdale, Ariz.
As a refresher, Aces is an chat-based concierge inside the HotelTonight app that can help you with things like requests for extra toiletries at your hotel, local restaurant recommendations, and even activities in the area. Users receive access to their Ace the morning of their check in, and can continue to use it throughout their stay. 
So how did the service fare in its limited beta period? Pretty well. In fact, data shared by the company suggests that Aces has become a bonafide amenity that actually influences whether or not guests will book with HotelTonight.
Specifically, guests who use Aces are 34 percent more likely to book again in 90 days, and those tempted with an Ace during the booking process have a 30 percent increase in conversion.
The company also said hundreds of thousands of messages have been exchanged between users and HotelTonight’s Aces, with an average response time of 23 seconds.
These are impressive numbers, mainly because the whole system is powered by humans. While HotelTonight said that they use some automation to help expedite things post-request (like pulling hours and location for nearby restaurants) , all messages are fielded by a live person.
This has definitely been noticeable in all of my interactions with Aces – some even use Emojis or give you personal details about their favorite restaurants or types of food.
And while the recommendations provided aren’t all that different from what you can find on Yelp, it’s nice to be able to get a late check out or toothbrush sent up without having to actually, you know, call and speak with someone on the phone.
