Today, the world woke up to a profile of sorts from the London Evening Standard. The profile was about Tinder CEO Sean Rad. And it was, well, special. Where to start?
First, let’s get the serious stuff out of the way. Rad’s parent company Match recently filed to go public. So the company is in a quiet period, right? Sure. Unless you’re Rad.
Now, let’s get to the…other stuff. Presented without written comment, here’s Rad’s life in a series of quotes from the piece:
On his reception at his concert with U2 Web Summit in Dublin:
“…bigger than Instagram’s” and full of “screaming” fans. It was like a concert. Tech, I guess, is more important than it was. It’s like the new rock.”

On finding love ? on Tinder, to which he says he’s “addicted”:
“…every other week I fall in love with a new girl. I’m focused. It’s such a critical time for the company so unfortunately I don’t have a lot of time for any of that.”

On being pursued stalked by a model:
…a “supermodel, someone really, really famous” has been “begging” him for sex “and I’ve been like, no”. She’s “taunted” him, he says, and “called me a prude”. 
More on the model:
“She’s one of the most beautiful women I’ve ever seen but it doesn’t mean that I want to rip her clothes off and have sex with her. Attraction is nuanced. I’ve been attracted to women who are … well, who my friends might think are ugly. I don’t care if someone is a model. Really. It sounds clichéd and almost totally unbelievable for a guy to say this, but it’s true. I need an intellectual challenge.”

and then…
“Apparently there’s a term for someone who gets turned on by intellectual stuff. You know, just talking. What’s the word? I want to say ‘sodomy’?”
————–NO IMAGE AVAILABLE————–
On the Vanity Fair article that caused the company to lash out against the reporter personally, and doing “background research on her”:
“…there’s some stuff about her as an individual that will make you think differently.”

You can read the rest here if you like. Here’s to finding love on Tinder.

And a big “pop” at IPO time.
