Live radio and podcast streaming network TuneIn this morning announced a deal that will see it offering live, play-by-play coverage of all NFL games to its premium subscribers. The multi-year partnership will provide NFL fans with audio feeds from every game, from preseason through the regular season and postseason, including the Super Bowl, the companies say.
The deal follows several other content partnerships the NFL has cooked up in recent months in an attempt to reach a younger, more mobile fan base. For example, in September, the NFL partnered with social media app Snapchat to provide exclusive “behind the scenes” footage and videos through Snapchat’s Live Story feature.
It also recently introduced a new version of its Game Pass service for users on connected devices, which lets viewers stream regular season, preseason and older games on-demand on a number of platforms, including Apple TV.
According to the NFL’s announcement about the new TuneIn partnership, premium subscribers worldwide will be able to access the feeds for all 32 NFL teams, including home and away feeds, national radio broadcasts, and Spanish-language broadcasters, where available.
In addition, all TuneIn users will be able to access an NFL channel featuring select NFL Media programming, including NFL Network shows like NFL Total Access, Around the NFL, and NFL HQ, plus NFL Media podcasts including Move the Sticks and the Dave Dameshek Football Program. The channel, NFL on TuneIn, will also include some original NFL programming produced by TuneIn.
As another bonus, paying subscribers will have access to a seven-hour-long Sunday broadcast starting later this month, which includes live analysis, stats and drop-ins of local radio coverage for all Sunday games airing in-progress. The show, yet to be named, will run Sundays from 1 pm ET to 8 pm ET.
The deal, which makes TuneIn the global audio distribution platform for the NFL, better positions the service to compete with both terrestrial radio and SiriusXM, the latter which is known for its exclusive stations and deals.
The expanded access to NFL audio will be especially advantageous to overseas NFL fans as the streaming radio service expands to more markets, which the company promises it will do in the future. In the meantime, the paid tier, TuneIn Premium, is available in the U.S. ($7.99 USD/month), Canada ($8.99 CAD/month) and in the U.K. (£5.99/month).
TuneIn, which touts having 60 million users worldwide, today offers over 100,000 streaming stations and 5.7 million on-demand programs and podcasts that users can listen to on over 200 connected devices, including phones, tablets and vehicles.
